+++
title = "What's new"
weight = 2
+++

This document shows you what's new in the latest release. For a detailed list of changes, see the [history page]({{%relref "basics/history" %}}).

**Breaking**: A change that requires action by you after upgrading to assure the site is still functional.

**Change**: A change in default behavior. This may requires action by you / may or may not be revertable by configuration.

**New**: Marks new behavior you might find interesting or comes configurable.

---

## 2.7.0

- **New**: Optional second parameter for [`notice`]({{% relref "shortcodes/notice" %}}) shortcode to set title in box header.
## 2.6.0

- **New**: Your site can now be served from a subfolder if you set `baseURL` and `canonifyURLs=true` in your `config.toml`. See the [documentation]({{% relref "basics/configuration/#a-word-on-running-your-site-in-a-subfolder" %}}) for a detailed example.

---

## 2.5.0

- **Change**: Add new colors `--MAIN-CODE-color` and `--MAIN-CODE-BG-color` for syntax highlightning fallback in your stylesheet in case `guessSyntax=true` is set. Ideally they are set to the same values as the ones from your chosen chroma style.

---

## 2.4.0

- **Change**: Creation of customized stylesheets was simplified down to only contain the CSS variables. Everything else can and should be deleted from your custom stylesheet to assure everything works fine. For the predefined stylesheet variants, this change is already included. The [documentation]({{%relref "basics/customization/#mine-variant" %}}) was adjusted accordingly.

- **New**: Hidden pages are displayed by default in their according tags page. You can now turn off this behavior by setting `disableTagHiddenPages=true` in your `config.toml`.

- **New**: You can define the expansion state of your menus for the whole site by setting the `alwaysopen` option in your `config.toml`. Please see further [documentation]({{%relref "cont/pages/#override-expand-state-rules-for-menu-entries" %}}) for possible values and default behavior.

- **New**: New frontmatter `ordersectionsby` option to change immediate children sorting in menu and `children` shortcode. Possible values are `title` or `weight`.

- **New**: Alternate content of a page is now advertised in the HTML meta tags. See [Hugo documentation](https://gohugo.io/templates/rss/#reference-your-rss-feed-in-head).

---

## 2.2.0

- **New**: Hidden pages are displayed by default in the sitemap generated by Hugo and are therefore visible for search engine indexing. You can now turn off this behavior by setting `disableSeoHiddenPages=true` in your `config.toml`.

---

## 2.1.0

- **Change**: In case the site's structure contains addional *.md files not part of the site (eg files that are meant to be included by site pages - see CHANGELOG.md in exampleSite), they will now be ignored by the search.

- **New**: Hidden pages are indexed for the site search by default. You can now turn off this behavior by setting `disableSearchHiddenPages=true` in your `config.toml`.

- **New**: If a search term is found in an `expand` shortcode, the expand will be opened.

- **New**: The menu will scroll the active item into view on load.

---

## 2.0.0

- **Change**: Syntaxhighlightning was switched to [built in Hugo mechanism](https://gohugo.io/content-management/syntax-highlighting/). You may need to configure a new stylesheet or decide to roll you own as describedd on in the Hugo documentation

- **Change**: In the predefined stylesheets there was a typo and `--MENU-HOME-LINK-HOVERED-color` must be changed to `--MENU-HOME-LINK-HOVER-color`.

- **Change**: `--MENU-HOME-LINK-color` and `--MENU-HOME-LINK-HOVER-color` were missing in the documentation. You should add them to your custom stylesheets.

- **Change**: Arrow navigation and `children` shortcode were ignoring setting for `ordersectionsby`. This is now changed and may result in different sorting order of your sub pages.

- **Change**: If hidden pages are accessed directly by typing their URL, they will be exposed in the menu.

- **Change**: A page without a `title` will be treated as `hidden=true`.

- **New**: You can define the expansion state of your menus in the frontmatter. Please see further [documentation]({{%relref "cont/pages/#override-expand-state-rules-for-menu-entries" %}}) for possible values and default behavior.

- **New**: New partials for defining pre/post content for menu items and the content. See [documentation]({{% relref "basics/customization" %}}) for further reading.

- **New**: Shortcode [`children`]({{% relref "shortcodes/children" %}}) with new parameter `containerstyle`.

- **New**: New shortcode [`include`]({{% relref "shortcodes/include" %}}) to include arbitrary file content into a page.

---

## 1.2.0

- **New**: Shortcode [`expand`]({{% relref "shortcodes/expand" %}}) with new parameter to open on page load.

---

## 1.1.0

- **New**: [`Mermaid`]({{% relref "shortcodes/mermaid#configuration" %}}) config options can be set in `config.toml`.