+++
title = 'Version 8.4'
type = 'releasenotes'
weight = -4

[params]
  disableToc = false
  hidden = true
  minHugoVersion = '0.141.0'
+++

## 8.4.0 (XXXX-XX-XX) {#8-4-0}

### Hugo

- {{% badge style="hugo" %}}Hugo{{% /badge %}} When the theme introduced compatiblity with Hugo {{% badge style="hugo" %}}0.146.7{{% /badge %}} it had to remove a performance optimization due to a limitation in Hugo. This was later fixed in Hugo {{% badge style="hugo" %}}0.149.0{{% /badge %}}.

  This release reintroduces the performance optimization and will cause your page build to fail with the above mentioned Hugo versions. You either need to upgrade or downgrade Hugo to an unaffected version.

### Change

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} This release comes with a [new way to configure your logo](configuration/branding/logo#change-the-logo).

  With the new system you can

  - rely on auto detection for a logo
  - remove the logo completly
  - override the logo for each variant
  - let the logo and site title lay out vertically or horizontally
  - override the complete layout with your own partial (that's the old way and still works)

  Nevertheless, this required massive changes to the CSS and most likely your logo will require tweaking of the CSS styles after an update.

  The easiest way to fix this is to remove a overridden `layouts/partials/logo.html` template in **your installation** and rely on the new configuration.

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} The [`children` shortcode](shortcodes/children) has a new layout resembling the taxonomy and term pages by setting `type=group`.

  In addition the shortcode learned some new parameter for displaying breadcrumbs and setting a heading depth.

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} The [`expand` shortcode](shortcodes/expand) has a new default text of `Details` to be in sync with Hugo's built-in `details` shortcode and the `details` HTML element.

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} The themes dark-mode support for the [`openapi` shortcode](shortcodes/openapi) was changed to the built-in implementation of the used Swagger library.

## New

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} The taxonomy and term pages are now internally using the [`children` shortcode](shortcodes/children). This makes it possible for you to set parameter of the children shortcode in your taxonomy/term pages front matter to change the layout.

  By that you can - for example - display the sub pages in a card layout. See the [categories taxonomy](categories) for an example.
