+++
disableToc = false
hidden = true
title = "Version 7.4"
type = "releasenotes"
weight = -4
+++

## 7.4.0 (XXXX-XX-XX) {#7-4-0}

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} If [`link.errorlevel` is configured](authoring/frontmatter/linking/#enabling-link-and-image-link-warnings), now also the `pageRef` of a [Hugo menu item](https://gohugo.io/content-management/menus/) and the `menuPageRef` in a [page's front matter](configuration/sidebar/menus/#displaying-arbitrary-links-in-a-page-menu) will be checked for existence.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} You can now [configure an ignore list](authoring/frontmatter/linking/#ignoring-false-negatives) of addresses that should be ignored if an errorlevel test fails. This is configured by setting `errorignore=[]` in your `hugo.toml`. This helps to remove false negatives from the output while still benefitting from the check for all other addresses.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} The theme supports the new [`source` output format](configuration/sitemanagement/outputformats/#source-support) which behaves similar in configuration as the `markdown` output format but allows the original Markdown source including the front matter of a page to be viewed.

  You can see this in action on the above linked page, accessible by clicking the {{% button style="transparent" icon="file-code" %}}{{% /button %}} topbar button.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} If you haven't overridden `layouts/partials/custom-header.html` and `css/custom.css` and/or `js/custom.js` is present in your project, the theme now adds them to your pages.

  This was done to be compatible with adding custom scripts in an older version of the Hugo documentation.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} Table headers are sticky now.
