+++
disableToc = false
hidden = true
title = "Version 7.6"
type = "releasenotes"
weight = -6
+++

## 7.6.0 (XXXX-XX-XX) {#7-6-0}

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} The theme [supports versioning](configuration/sitemanagement/versioning) now, were you can keep older versions of your site while showing a version switcher at the top of the menu.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} The menu configuration for the main menu area, [introduced in 7.1.0](introduction/releasenotes/7/1), is extended to the non-scrolling menu header area between search box and main scrolling area using the `sidebarheadermenus` option and to the menu footer area using the `sidebarfootermenus` option.

  The [configuration for all sidebar menus](/configuration/sidebar/menus#defining-sidebar-menus) is similar and now comes with two new types of menus.

  The `divider` type adds a horizontal ruler.

  The `custom` type allows to insert any HTML snippets into the menu. The HTML must be wrapped in a `li` element to not break HTML validation. The theme ships with the following snippets:

  - `languageswitcher`: will display the language switcher
  - `variantswitcher`: will display the variant switcher
  - `versionswitcher`: will display the version switcher
  - `historyclearer`: will display a button to clear the history of visited links

  You don’t need to change anything in your existing installation as the old configuration is used as a default.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} Translation into Ukrainian. This language is not supported for search.
