+++
disableToc = false
hidden = true
title = "Version 7.0"
type = "releasenotes"
weight = -0
+++

## 7.0.0.beta (XXXX-XX-XX) {#7-0-0}

> [!primary]
> {{% icon fire-flame-curved %}} The release you didn't know you want! {{% icon fire-flame-curved %}}

### Hugo 0.126.0

- {{% badge color="fuchsia" icon="fa-fw fab fa-hackerrank" title=" " %}}0.126.0{{% /badge %}} This release requires a newer Hugo version.

### Breaking

- {{% badge style="warning" title=" " %}}Breaking{{% /badge %}} This release comes with significant changes in file naming of partials and how the theme works internally. This was done because the theme

  - suffered from poor build performance for sites with 1000 or more pages
  - reinvented the wheel instead of using available Hugo mechanisms

  _What do I gain_, you may ask. A significant performance boost during build! Usually the build time has been cut at least in half for bigger sites. It is now possible to build even larger sites with 5000 or more pages. This was previously almost impossible due to rapidly increasing build time with the more pages you've introduced. For even bigger sites, the theme now has configurable performance optimizations (at the price of feature limitations).

  If you haven't done customizations to any partials, you can update right away.

  If you have customized your templates, in best cases you will get build warnings or even errors. In worst cases, your build succeeds but the site will not work as intended by you.

  Specifically, you will have to adapt your site if you have

  - overwritten the `header.html`, `menu.html` or `footer.html` partials
  - self-defined output formats that display HTML
  - defined archetype partials in `layouts/partials/archetypes`
  - overwritten prev/next topbar buttons

  There is a separate section in the documentation covering these cases.

- {{% badge style="warning" title=" " %}}Breaking{{% /badge %}} This release changes the way, the search index and the dedicated search page are generated. This may require reconfiguration by you to still work as you have intended.

  You need to remove the now obsolete `search` and `searchpage` output format from `[outputs.home]` in your `hugo.toml`, resulting in something similar to

	{{< multiconfig file=hugo >}}
	[outputs]
	  home = ["html", "rss", "print"]
	{{< /multiconfig >}}

  After that, your build will succeed but will most likely cause new defaults to be applied. With no further settings, in-page search, search popup and dedicated search page are all active by default. This can be reconfigured.

  In addition you are now able to overwrite the default file name of the search index and the default page name of the dedicated search page by changing `searchIndexURL` and `searchPageURL` respectively in your `hugo.toml`.

  See the [updated documentation](configuration/customization#configure-search) for reference.
