+++
title = "Version 2"
type = "releasenotes"
weight = -2
+++

<!--GH-ACTION-RELEASE-MILESTONE-->

## 2.9.0 (2021-11-19) {#290}

### Breaking

- {{% badge style="warning" title=" " %}}Breaking{{% /badge %}} This release removes the themes implementation of `ref`/`relref` in favor for Hugo's standard implementation. This is because of inconsistencies with the themes implementation. In advantage, your project becomes standard compliant and exchanging this theme in your project to some other theme will be effortless.

  In a standard compliant form you must not link to the `*.md` file but to its logical name. You'll see, referencing other pages becomes much easier. All three types result in the same reference:

  | Type          | Non-Standard                     | Standard               |
  |---------------|----------------------------------|------------------------|
  | Branch bundle | `basics/configuration/_index.md` | `basics/configuration` |
  | Leaf bundle   | `basics/configuration/index.md`  | `basics/configuration` |
  | Page          | `basics/configuration.md`        | `basics/configuration` |

  If you've linked from a page of one language to a page of another language, conversion is a bit more difficult but [Hugo got you covered](https://gohugo.io/content-management/cross-references/#link-to-another-language-version) as well.

  Also, the old themes implementation allowed refs to non-existing content. This will cause Hugo's implementation to show the error below and abort the generation. If your project relies on this old behavior, you can [reconfigure the error handling](https://gohugo.io/content-management/cross-references/#link-to-another-language-version) of Hugo's implementation.

  In the best case your usage of the old implementation is already standard compliant and you don't need to change anything. You'll notice this very easily once you've started `hugo server` after an upgrade and no errors are written to the console.

  You may see errors on the console after the update in the form:

  ````shell
  ERROR 2021/11/19 22:29:10 [en] REF_NOT_FOUND: Ref "basics/configuration/_index.md": "hugo-theme-relearn\exampleSite\content\_index.en.md:19:22": page not found
  ````

  In this case, you must apply one of two options:

  1. Start up a text editor with regular expression support for search and replace. Search for `(ref\s+"[^"]*?)(?:/_index|/index)?(?:\.md)?(#[^"]*?)?"` and replace it by `$1$2"` in all `*.md` files. **This is the recommended choice**.

  2. Copy the old implementation files `theme/hugo-theme-relearn/layouts/shortcode/ref.html` and `theme/hugo-theme-relearn/layouts/shortcode/relref.html` to your own projects `layouts/shortcode/ref.html` and `layouts/shortcode/relref.html` respectively. **This is not recommended** as your project will still rely on non-standard behavior afterwards.

---

## 2.8.0 (2021-11-03) {#280}

### Change

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} Although never officially documented, this release removes the font `Novacento`/`Novecento`. If you use it in an overwritten CSS please replace it with `Work Sans`. This change was necessary as Novacento did not provide all Latin special characters and lead to mixed styled character text eg. for Czech.

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} The theme now supports favicons served from `static/images/` named as `favicon` or `logo` in SVG, PNG or ICO format [out of the box](basics/branding#change-the-favicon). An overridden partial `layouts/partials/favicon.html` may not be necessary anymore in most cases.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} You can hide the table of contents menu for the whole site by setting the `disableToc` option in your `hugo.toml`. For an example see [the example configuration](basics/configuration).

---

## 2.7.0 (2021-10-24) {#270}

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} Optional second parameter for [`notice`](shortcodes/notice) shortcode to set title in box header.

---

## 2.6.0 (2021-10-21) {#260}

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} Your site can now be served from a subfolder if you set `baseURL` in your `hugo.toml`. See the [documentation](basics/customization#public-web-server-from-subdirectory) for a detailed example.

---

## 2.5.0 (2021-10-08) {#250}

### Change

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} New colors `--CODE-BLOCK-color` and `--CODE-BLOCK-BG-color` were added to provide a fallback for Hugo's syntax highlighting in case no language was given or the language is unsupported. Ideally the colors are set to the same values as the ones from your chosen chroma style.

---

## 2.4.0 (2021-10-07) {#240}

### Change

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} Creation of customized stylesheets was simplified down to only contain the CSS variables. Everything else can and should be deleted from your custom stylesheet to assure everything works fine. For the predefined stylesheet variants, this change is already included.

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} Hidden pages are displayed by default in their according tags page. You can now turn off this behavior by setting `disableTagHiddenPages=true` in your `hugo.toml`.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} You can define the expansion state of your menus for the whole site by setting the `alwaysopen` option in your `hugo.toml`. Please see further [documentation](cont/frontmatter#override-expand-state-rules-for-menu-entries) for possible values and default behavior.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} New frontmatter `ordersectionsby` option to change immediate children sorting in menu and `children` shortcode. Possible values are `title` or `weight`.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} Alternate content of a page is now advertised in the HTML meta tags. See [Hugo documentation](https://gohugo.io/templates/rss/#reference-your-rss-feed-in-head).

---

## 2.3.0 (2021-09-13) {#230}

### Hugo 0.81.0

- {{% badge color="fuchsia" icon="fa-fw fab fa-hackerrank" title=" " %}}0.81.0{{% /badge %}} This release requires a newer Hugo version.

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} Showcase multilanguage features by providing a documentation translation "fer us pirrrates". There will be no other translations besides the original English one and the Pirates one due to maintenance constraints.

---

## 2.2.0 (2021-09-09) {#220}

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} Hidden pages are displayed by default in the sitemap generated by Hugo and are therefore visible for search engine indexing. You can now turn off this behavior by setting `disableSeoHiddenPages=true` in your `hugo.toml`.

---

## 2.1.0 (2021-09-07) {#210}

### Hugo 0.69.0

- {{% badge color="fuchsia" icon="fa-fw fab fa-hackerrank" title=" " %}}0.69.0{{% /badge %}} This release requires a newer Hugo version.

### Change

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} In case the site's structure contains additional *.md files not part of the site (eg files that are meant to be included by site pages - see `CHANGELOG.md` in the exampleSite), they will now be ignored by the search.

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} Hidden pages are indexed for the site search by default. You can now turn off this behavior by setting `disableSearchHiddenPages=true` in your `hugo.toml`.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} If a search term is found in an `expand` shortcode, the expand will be opened.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} The menu will scroll the active item into view on load.

---

## 2.0.0 (2021-08-28) {#200}

### Change

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} Syntax highlighting was switched to the [built in Hugo mechanism](https://gohugo.io/content-management/syntax-highlighting/). You may need to configure a new stylesheet or decide to roll you own as described on in the Hugo documentation

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} In the predefined stylesheets there was a typo and `--MENU-HOME-LINK-HOVERED-color` must be changed to `--MENU-HOME-LINK-HOVER-color`. You don't need to change anything in your custom color stylesheet as the old name will be used as a fallback.

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} `--MENU-HOME-LINK-color` and `--MENU-HOME-LINK-HOVER-color` were missing in the documentation. You should add them to your custom stylesheets if you want to override the defaults.

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} Arrow navigation and `children` shortcode were ignoring setting for `ordersectionsby`. This is now changed and may result in different sorting order of your sub pages.

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} If hidden pages are accessed directly by typing their URL, they will be exposed in the menu.

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} A page without a `title` will be treated as `hidden=true`.

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} You can define the expansion state of your menus in the frontmatter. Please see further [documentation](cont/frontmatter#override-expand-state-rules-for-menu-entries) for possible values and default behavior.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} New partials for defining pre/post content for menu items and the content. See [documentation](basics/customization#partials) for further reading.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} Shortcode [`children`](shortcodes/children) with new parameter `containerstyle`.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} New shortcode [`include`](shortcodes/include) to include arbitrary file content into a page.
