+++
title = "Version 3"
type = "releasenotes"
weight = -3
+++

<!--GH-ACTION-RELEASE-MILESTONE-->

## 3.4.0 (2022-04-03) {#340}

### Breaking

- {{% badge style="warning" title=" " %}}Breaking{{% /badge %}} If you had previously overwritten the `custom-footer.html` partial to add visual elements below the content of your page, you have to move this content to the new partial `content-footer.html`. `custom-footer.html` was never meant to contain HTML other than additional styles and JavaScript.

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} If you prefer expandable/collapsible menu items, you can now set `collapsibleMenu=true` in your `hugo.toml`. This will add arrows to all menu items that contain sub menus. The menu will expand/collapse without navigation if you click on an arrow.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} You can activate [print support](basics/customization#activate-print-support) in your `hugo.toml` to add the capability to print whole chapters or even the complete site.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} Translation into Traditional Chinese.

---

## 3.3.0 (2022-03-28) {#330}

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} Introduction of new CSS variables to set the font. The theme distinguishes between `--MAIN-font` for all content text and `--CODE-font` for inline or block code. There are additional overrides for all headings. See the [theme variant generator](basics/generator) of the exampleSite for all available variables.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} The new shortcode `swagger` is available to include a UI for REST OpenAPI specifications. See the [documentation](shortcodes/openapi) for available features. This feature will not work with Internet Explorer 11.

---

## 3.2.0 (2022-03-19) {#320}

### Hugo 0.93.0

- {{% badge color="fuchsia" icon="fa-fw fab fa-hackerrank" title=" " %}}0.93.0{{% /badge %}} This release requires a newer Hugo version.

### Change

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} In this release the Mermaid JavaScript library will only be loaded on demand if the page contains a Mermaid shortcode or is using Markdown codefences. This changes the behavior of `disableMermaid` config option as follows: If a Mermaid shortcode or Markdown codefence is found, the option will be ignored and Mermaid will be loaded regardlessly.

  The option is still useful in case you are using scripting to set up your graph. In this case no shortcode or Markdown codefence is involved and the library is not loaded by default. In this case you can set `disableMermaid=false` in your frontmatter to force the library to be loaded. See the [theme variant generator](basics/generator) of the exampleSite for an example.

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} Additional color variant variable `--MERMAID-theme` to set the variant's Mermaid theme. This causes the Mermaid theme to switch with the color variant if it defers from the setting of the formerly selected color variant.

---

## 3.1.0 (2022-03-15) {#310}

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} [`attachment`](shortcodes/attachments) and [`notice`](shortcodes/notice) shortcodes have a new parameter to override the default icon. Allowed values are all [Font Awesome 5 Free](https://fontawesome.com/v5/search?m=free) icons.

---

## 3.0.0 (2022-02-22) {#300}

### Breaking

- {{% badge style="warning" title=" " %}}Breaking{{% /badge %}} We made changes to the menu footer. If you have your `menu-footer.html` [partial overridden](basics/customization#partials), you may have to review the styling (eg. margins/paddings) in your partial. For a reference take a look into the `menu-footer.html` partial that is coming with the exampleSite.

  This change was made to allow your own menu footer to be placed right after the so called prefooter that comes with the theme (containing the language switch and _Clear history_ functionality).

- {{% badge style="warning" title=" " %}}Breaking{{% /badge %}} We have changed the default colors from the original Learn theme (the purple menu header) to the Relearn defaults (the light green menu header) as used in the official documentation.

  This change will only affect your installation if you've not set the `themeVariant` parameter in your `hugo.toml`. [If you still want to use the Learn color variant](basics/branding#theme-variant), you have to explicitly set `themeVariant="learn"` in your `hugo.toml`.

  Note, that this will also affect your site if viewed with Internet Explorer 11 but in this case it can not be reconfigured as Internet Explorer does not support CSS variables.

### Change

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} Due to a bug, that we couldn't fix in a general manner for color variants, we decided to remove `--MENU-SEARCH-BOX-ICONS-color` and introduced `--MENU-SEARCH-color` instead. You don't need to change anything in your custom color stylesheet as the old name will be used as a fallback.

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} For consistency reasons, we renamed `--MENU-SEARCH-BOX-color` to `--MENU-SEARCH-BORDER-color`. You don't need to change anything in your custom color stylesheet as the old name will be used as a fallback.

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} With this release you are now capable to define your own _dark mode_ variants.

  To make this possible, we have introduced a lot more color variables you can use in [your color variants](basics/branding#theme-variant). Your old variants will still work and don't need to be changed as appropriate fallback values are used by the theme. Nevertheless, the new colors allow for much more customization.

  To see what's now possible, see the new variants `relearn-dark` and `neon` that are coming with this release.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} To make the creation of new variants easier for you, we've added a new interactive [theme variant generator](basics/generator). This feature will not work with Internet Explorer 11.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} You can now configure multiple color variants in your `hugo.toml`. In this case, the first variant is the default chosen on first view and a variant selector will be shown in the menu footer. See the [documentation](basics/branding#multiple-variants) for configuration.

  Note, that the new variant selector will not work with Internet Explorer 11 as it does not support CSS variables. Therefore, the variant selector will not be displayed with Internet Explorer 11.
