+++
title = "Version 4"
type = "releasenotes"
weight = -4
+++

<!--GH-ACTION-RELEASE-MILESTONE-->

## 4.2.0 (2022-06-23) {#420}

### Breaking

- {{% badge style="warning" title=" " %}}Breaking{{% /badge %}} The second parameter for the [`include` shortcode](shortcodes/include) was switched in meaning and was renamed from `showfirstheading` to `hidefirstheading`. If you haven't used this parameter in your shortcode, the default behavior hasn't changed and you don't need to change anything.

  If you've used the second boolean parameter, you have to rename it and invert its value to achieve the same behavior.

### Change

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} Previously, if the [`tabs` shortcode](shortcodes/tabs) could not find a tab item because, the tabs ended up empty. Now the first tab is selected instead.

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} The `landingPageURL` was removed from `hugo.toml`. You can safely remove this as well from your configuration as it is not used anymore. The theme will detect the landing page URL automatically and will point to the project's homepage. If you want to support a different link, overwrite the `logo.html` partial.

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} All shortcodes can now be also called from your partials. Examples for this are added to the documentation of each shortcode.

---

## 4.1.0 (2022-06-12) {#410}

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} While fixing issues with the search functionality for non Latin languages, you can now [configure to have multiple languages on a single page](cont/i18n#search-with-mixed-language-support).

---

## 4.0.0 (2022-06-05) {#400}

### Breaking

- {{% badge style="warning" title=" " %}}Breaking{{% /badge %}} The `custom_css` config parameter was removed from the configuration. If used in an existing installation, it can be achieved by overriding the `custom-header.html` template in a much more generic manner.

- {{% badge style="warning" title=" " %}}Breaking{{% /badge %}} Because anchor hover color was not configurable without introducing more complexity to the variant stylesheets, we decided to remove `--MAIN-ANCHOR-color` instead. You don't need to change anything in your custom color stylesheet as the anchors now get their colors from `--MAIN-LINK-color` and `--MAIN-ANCHOR-HOVER-color` respectively.

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} All shortcodes now support named parameter. The positional parameter are still supported but will not be enhanced with new features, so you don't need to change anything in your installation.

  This applies to [`expand`](shortcodes/expand), [`include`](shortcodes/include), [`notice`](shortcodes/notice) and [`siteparam`](shortcodes/siteparam).

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} The [`button`](shortcodes/button) shortcode received some love and now has a parameter for the color style similar to other shortcodes.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} New colors `--PRIMARY-color` and `--SECONDARY-color` were added to provide easier modification of your custom style. Shortcodes with a color style can now have `primary` or `secondary` as additional values.

  These two colors are the default for other, more specific color variables. You don't need to change anything in your existing custom color stylesheets as those variables get reasonable default values.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} Translation into Polish. This language is not supported for search.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} The documentation for all shortcodes were revised.
