+++
hidden = true
title = "Version 6"
type = "releasenotes"
weight = -6
+++

<!--GH-ACTION-RELEASE-MILESTONE-->

## 6.4.0 (2024-09-12) {#640}

### Change

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} If you now display a single code block in a `notice` box, its [margin and border will be removed](shortcodes/notice#code-with-collapsed-colored-borders) so only the colored notice border is visible.

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} It is now possible to have user-defined styles for all shortcodes that accept the `style` parameter. See the [`notice` shortcode](shortcodes/notice#configuration) for configuration.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} The [`resources` shortcode](shortcodes/resources) has a new parameter `expanded` to make the resource list collapsible.

---

## 6.3.0 (2024-09-03) {#630}

### Change

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} The [`expand` shortcode](shortcodes/expand) changed the naming of the `open` parameter to `expanded`. You don't need to change anything yet but may get deprecation warnings.

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} If the content for the [`notice` shortcode](shortcodes/notice) is empty, now only the title bar will be displayed. Previously an empty content box was displayed.

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} The [`notice` shortcode](shortcodes/notice) has a new parameter `expanded` to make the content collapsible.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} If you are running Hugo {{% badge color="fuchsia" icon="fa-fw fab fa-hackerrank" title=" " %}}0.134.0{{% /badge %}} or later, the theme now supports [Obsidian styled alerts](cont/markdown#obsidian-styled-alerts).

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} The theme has updated its Mermaid dependency to 11.1.0. This adds support for [packet](shortcodes/mermaid#packet) and [architecture](shortcodes/mermaid#architecture) diagrams.

---

## 6.2.0 (2024-08-26) {#620}

### Change

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} The heading anchor links are extended in functionality.

  If you now click on it, not only is the link copied to the clipboard (previous behavior) but also the heading scrolls to the top of the page.

  If you dislike the new behavior, you can deactivate it by setting `disableAnchorScrolling=true` in your `hugo.toml`. See the [docs for further options](basics/customization#change-heading-anchor-behavior).

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} If you are running Hugo {{% badge color="fuchsia" icon="fa-fw fab fa-hackerrank" title=" " %}}0.132.0{{% /badge %}} or later, the theme is now capable to print [GitHub styled alerts](cont/markdown#github-styled-alerts).

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} To support new severity levels for GitHub styled alerts, all shortcodes that support severity levels with their `style` parameter were expanded with the new severities `caution` and `important` and the `color` parameter was expanded with `cyan` and `magenta`. Please note, that coloring and icons of severities may defer from the [display you see on GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax#alerts).

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} To support new severity levels for GitHub styled alerts, the new severities and their according colors are also available as CSS variables `BOX-MAGENTA-color`, `BOX-MAGENTA-TEXT-color`, `BOX-CAUTION-color`, `BOX-CAUTION-TEXT-color`, `BOX-CYAN-color`, `BOX-CYAN-TEXT-color`, `BOX-IMPORTANT-color`, `BOX-IMPORTANT-TEXT-color`. You don't need to change anything in your custom color stylesheet as appropriate default colors will be used.

---

## 6.1.0 (2024-08-02) {#610}

### Change

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} The [`include` shortcode](shortcodes/include) is now able to resolve links to pages as well as resources or files in the file system (the old behavior).

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} To make the asset buster mechanism more robust, some internally used stylesheets where restructured. This generally should not affect your page in any negative way.

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} The [`openapi` shortcode](shortcodes/openapi) is now able to resolve links to resources as well as to files in the file system (the old behavior). You can configure to generate warnings or errors during build by setting `openapi.errorlevel` to either `warning` or `error` in your `hugo.toml` if a path can not be resolved.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} Shortcodes supporting an `errorlevel` configuration can now have overridden values in the [frontmatter](cont/frontmatter/) section of each individual page.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} The theme now comes with its own overridden version of the `relref` shortcode.

  While the usage of `relref` is obsolete and discouraged by Hugo for a while, existing installations may use it. In configurations using a `baseURL` with a subdirectory, and having `relativeURLs=false` (the default) Hugo's standard `relref` implementation was failing.

  The shortcode is deactivated by default and can be activated by setting

	{{< multiconfig file=hugo >}}
	[params]
	  disableDefaultRelref = true
	{{< /multiconfig >}}

  in your `hugo.toml`. Only do this if your site fulfills **all of the above assumptions**.

---

## 6.0.0 (2024-04-27) {#600}

### Breaking

- {{% badge style="warning" title=" " %}}Breaking{{% /badge %}} This release requires you to move your self-defined variant (`theme-*.css`) and chroma stylesheets (`chroma-*.css`) from `static/css` to `assets/css`.

  This was necessary to avoid permission errors on build if running in certain Unix configurations.

  In addition it is not allowed anymore to `@import` your chroma stylesheet from inside of your variant stylesheet.

  Say, your chroma stylesheet is named `chroma-monokai.css`, you have to add the following inside your variant stylesheet:

	````css
	--CODE-theme: monokai;
	````

- {{% badge style="warning" title=" " %}}Breaking{{% /badge %}} The parameter `description` in your `hugo.toml` will now be ignored.

  With the newly introduced unified handling of descriptions throughout the theme, the only place the old parameter would have been used was your home page.

  For migration, move the `description` parameter of your `hugo.toml` into the frontmatter section of your home page.

- {{% badge style="warning" title=" " %}}Breaking{{% /badge %}} Search support for the `json` outputformat [deprecated in 5.4.0](basics/releasenotes/5/#540) was removed.

  Change it to `search` for the homepage in your `hugo.toml`. See the docs for [detailed configuration](basics/customization#configure-search).

- {{% badge style="warning" title=" " %}}Breaking{{% /badge %}} The frontmatter option `menuTitle` [deprecated in 5.24.0](basics/releasenotes/5/#5240) was removed in favor for Hugo’s own `linkTitle`.

  Additionally, if set, `linkTitle` will now be used instead of `title` to generate the breadcrumb.

- {{% badge style="warning" title=" " %}}Breaking{{% /badge %}} The `swagger` shortcode [deprecated in 5.13.0](basics/releasenotes/5/#5130) was removed in favor for the  [`openapi` shortcode](shortcodes/openapi) with the same set of parameter.

- {{% badge style="warning" title=" " %}}Breaking{{% /badge %}} Support for Internet Explorer 11 was finally dropped.

### Change

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} With the removal of support for Internet Explorer 11, Font Awesome was upgraded to version 6.5.2.

  You may experience slight changes for some icons. In addition you have additional ~1700 icons [to chose](https://fontawesome.com/v6/search?m=free) from.

- {{% badge style="note" title=" " %}}Change{{% /badge %}} The [`children` shortcode](shortcodes/children) was fixed to adhere to its documentation, generating the description based on this rule: When no description or summary exists for the page, the first 70 words of the content is taken.

  Previously, the summary erroneously was ignored which now can lead to different output if you set `description=true` as a parameter.

### New

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} The [`include` shortcode](shortcodes/include) is now able to resolve links to resources as well as to files in the file system (the old behavior). You can configure to generate warnings or errors during build by setting `include.errorlevel` to either `warning` or `error` in your `hugo.toml` if a path can not be resolved.

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} Math is now usable without enclosing it in a shortcode or Markdown codefence by using Hugo's [passthrough configuration](shortcodes/math#passthrough-configuration).

- {{% badge style="info" icon="plus-circle" title=" " %}}New{{% /badge %}} Translation into Romanian.
